source/designer-guide/process-modeling/process-elements/process-end-page.rst, before:

.. _process-element-end-page:

Process End Page
================

|image0| The *Process End Page* element is located in the *Event & Gateway*
drawer of the process editor palette.

Element Details
---------------

This elements terminates the current process and displays a dialog page.

Inscription
-----------

.. include:: _tab-name.rst

End Page Tab
~~~~~~~~~~~~

On this tab you could define the web page displayed when a case ends
with this End Page Element.

Dialog Page
   Pages can be referenced from the content management system or the web
   content directory. The wizard allows you to create, select or edit
   pages.

   Please refer to :ref:`user-interface-web-page-creating` for a
   more thorough explanation of this tab section.

   If you choose to use a JSF page as end page please have a look at the
   :ref:`static-jsf-pages` documentation.

   |image1|


.. |image0| image:: /_images/process-editor/elements/end-page.png
.. |image1| image:: /_images/process-inscription/process-end-page-tab-end-page.png

Commit message:

XIVY-17003 specifiy path for xhtml endpages

source/designer-guide/process-modeling/process-elements/process-end-page.rst, after:

.. _process-element-end-page:

Process End Page
================

|image0| The *Process End Page* element is located in the *Event & Gateway*
drawer of the process editor palette.

Element Details
---------------

This elements terminates the current process and displays a dialog page.

Inscription
-----------

.. include:: _tab-name.rst

End Page Tab
~~~~~~~~~~~~

On this tab you could define the web page displayed when a case ends
with this End Page Element.

Dialog Page
   Pages can be referenced from the content management system or the web
   content directory. The wizard allows you to create, select or edit
   pages. All files can be referenced from the webcontent. There is a special 
   behavior with xhtml files, these files need to be in the webcontent/view directory.

   Please refer to :ref:`user-interface-web-page-creating` for a
   more thorough explanation of this tab section.

   If you choose to use a JSF page as end page please have a look at the
   :ref:`static-jsf-pages` documentation.

   |image1|


.. |image0| image:: /_images/process-editor/elements/end-page.png
.. |image1| image:: /_images/process-inscription/process-end-page-tab-end-page.png
