source/neo-designer/gettingstarted.rst, before:

.. _neo-getting-started:

Getting Started
---------------

.. rubric:: Create a Workspace

To start working with NEO Designer you first create a workspace.
A workspace is the development area where an application is built and tested. 
It's the space where your business processes are designed, previewed and 
simulated before they're deployed as a functioning application.
In a newly created workspace, you will find a first main project as your starting 
point to begin your work.

.. image:: /_images/neo/overview-home.png

.. rubric:: Draw a Process model

A process describes a sequence of automated steps that optimize workflows and 
enables efficient task management within an application.
Start the Axon Ivy :ref:`process-editor` that is included in NEO Designer to design 
and edit a process model. 

.. image:: /_images/neo/editor-process.png

.. rubric:: Define the Data

A data class is used to define and structure the data within a process application. 
It is used to manage data consistently across processes and forms.
Use the Axon Ivy :ref:`data-class-editor` that is part of NEO to define the list of data 
attributes used in the process.     

.. image:: /_images/neo/editor-data-class.png

.. rubric:: Create Forms

A form is a user interface element that facilitates data entry and interaction with 
the application, acting as a bridge between users and the system.
The Axon Ivy :ref:`form-editor` is a graphical modeling tool to design dynamic forms.

.. image:: /_images/neo/editor-form.png

.. rubric:: Simulate the application

Included in NEO Designer is a simulator feature to execute and test a process 
with a sinlge click. 

.. image:: /_images/neo/view-browser.png

.. rubric:: Add Configurations 

Configurations are the settings and parameters that define how an application behaves 
and interacts with other systems.
Use the :ref:`variables-editor` to create, delete, and edit the key and values of Variables. 

.. image:: /_images/neo/editor-variable.png

.. rubric:: Import more Projects

Projects can be imported into the workspace either from the :ref:`market` or from a file.
In the Axon Ivy market you can find and download reusable components, templates and 
solutions to accelerate development.
In collaboration with a pro designer packed project files will be shared.

To use the components from imported projects they must be added as a dependency to 
the main project. 

.. image:: /_images/neo/overview-project.png

Commit message:

XIVY-18081 Add new role editor

source/neo-designer/gettingstarted.rst, after:

.. _neo-getting-started:

Getting Started
---------------

.. rubric:: Create a Workspace

To start working with NEO Designer you first create a workspace.
A workspace is the development area where an application is built and tested. 
It's the space where your business processes are designed, previewed and 
simulated before they're deployed as a functioning application.
In a newly created workspace, you will find a first main project as your starting 
point to begin your work.

.. image:: /_images/neo/overview-home.png

.. rubric:: Draw a Process model

A process describes a sequence of automated steps that optimize workflows and 
enables efficient task management within an application.
Start the Axon Ivy :ref:`process-editor` that is included in NEO Designer to design 
and edit a process model. 

.. image:: /_images/neo/editor-process.png

.. rubric:: Define the Data

A data class is used to define and structure the data within a process application. 
It is used to manage data consistently across processes and forms.
Use the Axon Ivy :ref:`data-class-editor` that is part of NEO to define the list of data 
attributes used in the process.     

.. image:: /_images/neo/editor-data-class.png

.. rubric:: Create Forms

A form is a user interface element that facilitates data entry and interaction with 
the application, acting as a bridge between users and the system.
The Axon Ivy :ref:`form-editor` is a graphical modeling tool to design dynamic forms.

.. image:: /_images/neo/editor-form.png

.. rubric:: Simulate the application

Included in NEO Designer is a simulator feature to execute and test a process 
with a sinlge click. 

.. image:: /_images/neo/view-browser.png

.. rubric:: Configurations 

Configurations are the settings and parameters that define how an application behaves 
and interacts with other systems.
Use the :ref:`variables-editor`, :ref:`cms-editor` or the :ref:`role-editor` to do so. 

.. image:: /_images/neo/editor-variable.png

.. rubric:: Import more Projects

Projects can be imported into the workspace either from the :ref:`market` or from a file.
In the Axon Ivy market you can find and download reusable components, templates and 
solutions to accelerate development.
In collaboration with a pro designer packed project files will be shared.

To use the components from imported projects they must be added as a dependency to 
the main project. 

.. image:: /_images/neo/overview-project.png
