.. _reverse-proxy:

Reverse Proxy
=============

The purpose of a reverse proxy (or frontend web server) is to provide a single
point of entry for one or more services from outside the network. The reverse
proxy receives all requests from the clients and forwards them to the Axon Ivy
Engine which handles them. This allows integrating the processes and
applications that you are running on an Axon Ivy Engine into a company or web
portal. The use of a reverse proxy provides higher security. You have to keep
the reverse proxy up-to-date at any time with the latest security updates
because this is also the entry point for attackers. In addition, we recommend
that you block access to critical resources such as the Engine Cockpit.

We strongly recommend running a productive Axon Ivy Engine behind a reverse
proxy. You should terminate the SSL traffic (HTTPS) on the reverse proxy and let
the reverse proxy communicate with the Axon Ivy Engine via plain HTTP. This
makes the setup easier and increases performance.

If you still use the AJP protocol between reverse proxy and the Axon Ivy Engine,
start using HTTP or HTTPS instead of AJP. AJP development has ceased and its
use with Ivy is deprecated. 

|

.. graphviz:: overview.dot
   :layout: neato

|

We have described how to integrate the Axon Ivy Engine with the following
reverse proxy servers:

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    nginx/index
    apache-httpd/index
    microsoft-iis/index

Read carefully how to improve security by :ref:`restricting the access
<reverse-proxy-secure>` to an Axon Ivy Engine when using a reverse proxy. Some
reverse proxy servers provide :ref:`Single Sign-on (SSO) <single-sign-on>`
functionality. The reverse proxy then is responsible to authenticate users.

The Engine Cockpit provides the :ref:`web server view <engine-cockpit-web-server>`
for debugging purposes while integrating a reverse proxy. 

|


.. rubric:: Base URL

Besides the setup of the reverse proxy itself, you always need to configure the
base URL in :ref:`ivy.yaml <ivy-yaml>`. The Axon Ivy Engine will use this
configuration to create absolute links that are accessible to clients (e.g. for
links in :ref:`task mails <email-notifications>`).

   .. code-block:: yaml

      # sample ivy.yaml that configures the base URL for clients.
      # https://acme.com will be the absolute URL prefix for links generated by Axon Ivy Engine.
      BaseUrl: https://acme.com


.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :hidden:

    secure-setup/index
